Hi everyone.
My name is Laura Leigh and I'm an Inuk woman whose family originates from the southern Qikiqtani region in Baffin Island, in Nunavut, Canada.
Not long after starting my career in the public service, I joined the Indigenous Circle Network
at Shared Services Canada and was given the opportunity to panel and speak about my experience as an Inuk woman.
These engagements asked simple but very thought provoking questions, one that really stuck with me,
is "Can you tell us the importance of your cultural identity?" It's now a topic I often think about.
Throughout my childhood, I was increasingly curious of my roots and culture and craved to fulfill what felt like an incomplete identity.
I grew up in Lachute Quebec, which is 2000 kilometers away from my family's community.
I spent some time there as a child, then went 10 years without seeing loved ones,
smelling the mostly untouched land, enjoying feasts and embracing a community of Inuit culture.
If you think about your identity, you think of all the things that make up your individuality,
including your passions, habits, dreams, meaning and purpose in life.
Now, to have missing parts of your identity, you have a hard time grounding yourself.
You don't know what path to follow, and you feel a lack of purpose.
Nunavut has the second highest suicide rate in the world.
Not just Canada, but the world.
You can look at any statistical report and the Indigenous population will always have a significantly higher rate of suicide.
If you've ever spoken to someone who is suicidal, like they're struggling with their lack of purpose in life,
they can't ground themselves and they feel as though they have no meaning here.
Indigenous were stripped of their identity and I believe it directly impacts the high suicide rates among our people.
Until I had the opportunity to visit Iqualuit and be with my family and with my culture,
eating traditional food and hearing my language, I struggled with my identity.
I moved to Iqualuit in 2015 and spent almost three years there, and that decision has offered me more than I could have ever imagined.
It's offered me love, connection, and a place to always call home.
Embodying one's culture often helps those struggling with their mental health.
Many Indigenous led programs that incorporate cultural practices aim to help those
with substance abuse or criminal behavior have been very successful in helping them heal.
Providing a space for Indigenous to really connect to themselves, gives them the opportunity to feel grounded and be part of a community.
As a public servant speaking to other public servants, I'd like you to encourage Indigenous to be curious about their culture.
Ask questions, because I love speaking about Inuit culture, being Inuk, my language and my family.
Asking questions forces a person to reflect.
And for me, it's a reflection of who I am, what I love, and my place in the world.
Nakurmik, thank you.